[EDU-1666] - Chat message history example (#2316)
ably/docs: examples/chat-room-history/page.md

# Message history for chat applications

Message history enables users to view messages that have been previously sent to the chat room.

> Message history enable users to catch up on any conversations they missed. For example, in a live stream, users read previous discussions when they first join. In team chats, users can reference past discussions and decisions for context before replying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message history enable users to catch up on any conversations they missed. For example, in a live stream, users can read conversations that happened before they joined. In team chats, users can view previous discussions and decisions, for context, before replying.
```

> Message storage and history enable users to maintain context and catch up on conversations they missed. For example, in a live stream chat room, users can quickly see previous discussions, and in team chats they can reference past decisions, and stay informed about earlier conversations - making it easy to join ongoing discussions or review important information shared while they were away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message history enable users to catch up on any conversations they missed. For example, in a live stream, users read previous discussions when they first join. In team chats, users can reference past discussions and decisions for context before replying.
```

> Message storage and history is implemented using [Ably Chat](https://ably.com/docs/products/chat). The Chat SDK contains a set of purpose-built APIs that abstract away the complexities involved in architecting chat features. It is built on top of Ably's core platform, and so it provides the same performance guarantees and scaling potential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message history is available in [Ably Chat](https://ably.com/docs/products/chat). The Chat SDK contains a set of purpose-built APIs that abstract away the complexities involved in architecting chat features. It is built on top of Ably's core platform, and so it provides the same performance guarantees and scaling potential.
```

## Resources

// React brief (Only visible if viewing the React example)

> Use the following components to add an message storage and history implementation into a chat application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following components to add message history into a chat application:
```

* [`ChatClientProvider`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/setup?lang=react#instantiate): initializes and manages a shared chat client instance, passing it down through React context to enable real-time chat functionality across the application.
* [`ChatRoomProvider`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms?lang=react#create): manages the state and functionality of a specific chat room, providing access to messages, participants, and real-time interactions within that room via React context.
* [`useRoom()`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms?lang=react#create) hook: a hook to manage the state and interaction for a chat “room”, allowing users to join, send messages, listen for messages, and use the other chat functions such as typing indicators.
* [`useMessages()`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=react#get) hook: a hook to retrieve messages that have been previously sent to a room.

> Find out more about [message storage](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=react).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find out more about [message history](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=react).
```

> Find out more about [message storage and history](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=react).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find out more about [message storage](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=react).
```

// End React brief

// Javascript brief (Only visible if viewing the Javascript example)

> Use the following methods to add an message storage and history implementation into a chat application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following methods to add message history into a chat application:
```

* [`rooms.get()`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms?lang=javascript#create) - creates a new or retrieves an existing `room`.
* [`rooms.messages.subscribe()`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=javascript#subscribe) - subscribes to a room, retrieving previously sent messages while listening for future messages.

> * [`room.messages.get`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=javascript#get) - Retrieve messages that have been previously sent to a room.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`room.messages.get`](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=javascript#get) - retrieve messages that have been previously sent to a room.
```

> Find out more about [message storage and history](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=javascript).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find out more about [message history](https://ably.com/docs/chat/rooms/history?lang=javascript).
```
